Snowflake Data Warehouse Architecture

Two concepts:
Shared disk Architecture-
All computational nodes in this system share the same disk or storage device. Although each processing node (processor) has its memory, 
all processors have access to all disks. Since all nodes can access the same data, cluster control software is needed to monitor and control data processing. 
All nodes have a uniform copy of the data when updated or deleted. Two (or more) nodes trying to edit the same data simultaneously must not be allowed.
A shared disk architecture is typically well-suited for large-scale computing that requires ACID compliance.

Shared-nothing Architecture-
Each computing node has its private memory and storage or disk space in a shared-nothing architecture. These nodes can communicate with each other due
to interconnected network connections. When a request for processing comes in, a router routes it to the proper computing node for fulfillment.

Snowflake Architecture
The Snowflake architecture combines shared-nothing and shared-disk architecture. Snowflake uses a central data repository accessible from all compute nodes in the
platform, like shared-disk systems. Snowflake, however, utilizes MPP (massively parallel processing) compute clusters to perform queries.
Each node in the cluster keeps a piece of the entire data set locally, like shared-nothing systems. 
This method combines a shared-disk design's ease of data management with a shared-nothing architecture's efficiency and scale-out advantages.

The Snowflake data warehouse architecture has three layers -

Database Storage Layer

Query Processing Layer

Cloud Services Layer

How Does Snowflake Store Data Internally? 

As soon as data enters the Snowflake data storage layer, it is restructured into multiple micro-partitions that are internally optimized, compressed, and stored in columnar format.
Data administration is easier using the cloud for data storage, which operates as a shared-disk architecture (data accessible by all clusters). 
The only way for users to access the data objects that Snowflake stores in its storage layer are via running SQL query operations; they are neither directly visible nor accessible.

Micro Partitions, Data Clustering, and Columnar Format are a few key concepts relevant to the data storage layer that go into creating Snowflake's table structure for its faster retrieval.
