Cloud Partners Categories:
SNOWFLAKE IS AVAILABLE ON AWS, AZURE, AND GOOGLE IN OVER 20 REGIONS ACROSS THE GLOBE.
Snowflake is uniquely built to be global,  meaning customers get a single and seamless experience regardless of cloud or region.

If you select AWS as cloud provider when you create your account , it does not mean that you can not access GCP or Azure storage.

1)Our Data Cloud was first available on Amazon Web Services (AWS), which remains an integral Snowflake partner with which we have many joint customers.
Initially snowflake account URL was having only account locator as identifier . Currently region and provider has also been added in URL when you login to snowsight.

2)As Snowflake continues to grow, our customer base continues to expand. We’ve answered by making our Data Cloud available on Microsoft to best serve our customers’ needs.

3)In early 2020, we yet again responded to our customers by offering Snowflake on Google, and continue to expand by making Snowflake available in more Google regions.


Snowflake EcoSystem:
Snowflake works with a wide array of industry-leading tools and technologies:
1)Certified partners who have developed cloud-based and on-premises solutions for connecting to Snowflake.
2)Other 3rd-party tools and technologies that are known to work with Snowflake.
3)Snowflake-provided clients, including SnowSQL (command line interface), connectors for Python and Spark, and drivers for Node.js, JDBC, ODBC, and more

We will focus on Partners for now.

Partner Connect: 

The Admin area of Snowsight, the Snowflake web interface, is your Snowflake command center. 
Partner Connect lets you easily create trial accounts with selected Snowflake business partners and integrate these accounts with Snowflake.
This feature provides a convenient option for trying various 3rd-party tools and services, and then adopting the ones that best meet your business needs.


The Partner Connect page of Snowsight lets you connect with third-party tools and services offered by Snowflake business partners.

Use the categories, located in the upper-left corner of the page, to filter the Partner Connect page. The page provides the following categories:

All Categories (default)

Data Integration e.g.  Abinitio, dbt labs,IBM Datastage, Informatica,Apache Kafka,Rivery

Business Intelligence e.g. AWS QuickSight,IBM Cognos,Looker,PowerBI,Microstrategy

Data Science & ML e.g. Alteryx,Amazon Segamaker,Databricks, SAS,Apache Spark

Security & Governance e.g. Alation,Atlan,Collibra,Satori,

SQL Development & Management e.g. snowflake worksheets, SnowSQL(Python-based client for performing all tasks in Snowflake,
                            including querying, executing DDL/DML commands, and bulk loading/unloading of data.) , Snowflake SQL Extension for Visual Studio Code.
In addition, Snowflake works with a variety of 3rd-party SQL tools for managing the modeling,development, and deployment
of SQL code in your Snowflake applications . e.g. Dataops,Aginity,Erwin

Native Programmatic Interfaces Snowflake supports developing applications using many popular programming languages and development platforms. e.g. Go,Python,
PHP and node js etc.


Security Requirements:

Partner Connect is limited to account administrators (i.e. users with the ACCOUNTADMIN role) who have a verified email address in Snowflake:
To use Partner Connect, you must switch to the ACCOUNTADMIN role or contact someone in your organization who has the role.

Click on the corresponding tile for the partner to which you wish to connect.

A dialog displays the requirements for connecting to the partner, as well as a list of the objects automatically created in Snowflake during the connection process, 
including an empty database, warehouse, default user, and custom role. The partner application uses these objects when reading from or writing to your account.

Optionally specify one or more existing databases in Snowflake to automatically use with the trial. 
This creates an additional custom role that makes existing data in Snowflake quickly and easily available to the partner application.

Objects Created for the Partner: 4 

In addition, if you optionally chose to specify one or more existing databases during the initial connection process, a second custom role is created with all of the necessary privileges to access the tables in the databases:

PC_<partner>_DB_PICKER_ROLE

This role is then granted to the PC_<partner>_ROLE, which enables all the tables in the specified databases to be used by the partner application with minimal (or no) additional configuration.

Note that this second role is not displayed in the dialog, but the role is created automatically after all the other objects listed in the dialog are created.





